"Even small increases in A result in large increases in the total mass of the systems produced; increasing A also decreases the average number of planets per system. As may be seen in Figure 17, for A = 0.003 and 0.006 the planetary system has become a binary star sys-tem, the body near 9 a.u. having grown large enough to be considered a red dwarf star. Observationally, the two stars of smallest mass now known are members of a binary system designated L726-8; each star has a mass estimated at about 0.04Ms (about 40 times the mass of Jupiter) or 13,000M e. The lower theoretical limit to the mass of a star is believed to be near 0.02Ms. It will be noticed that the binary star systems still contain numerous planetary bodies. As A is increased still more the systems become multiple-star systems and the number of planetary companions diminishes. Actually, the results at the higher values of A should be considered only suggestive of the general trend, since the total mass of the "planetary" bodies is now becoming fairly high with respect to that of the central body, so that the original simplifying assumptions, which were adequate when the total planetary mass was well below 0.01Ms, no longer apply so satisfactorily. The gravitational attractions of the several large masses for each other can no longer be considered to have negligible effects on the secular stability of the systems. This is pushing the ACRETE program somewhat beyond its original intent (to create planetary systems similar to the solar system). However, it would be readily possible to modify the program slightly to provide more rigorously for cases in which some of the planetary bodies grow to stellar mass. In any event, the general trend is clear. Simply increasing the value assigned to one parameter makes it possible to generate widely spaced binary and multiple-star systems."

"The following parameters were fixed in the ACRETE program: a = 5, n = 3, mo = 10-15Ms, Q = 0.077, and B = 1.2 x 10-5. Parameters A, K, and W were varied to find combinations of conditions that produced planetary systems most similar to the solar system in general character."

"In trial computer runs, W (which is an approximation of the aver-age eccentricity of the cloud particles) was varied from zero to 0.25, with resulting planetary systems most closely resembling the solar system in general pattern when W was set equal to 0.20 or 0.25."

"...the semimajor axes of planetary nuclei can never be greater than 50 distance units, which effectively sets an outer boundary to the problem. An inner boundary was also established, arbitrarily at 0.3 distance unit. (More than 92 percent of the total cloud mass lies between these bounds.)"

"As shown below, planetary systems closely resembling the solar system were obtained experimentally when using the following constants: A = 1.5 x 10-3 (solar masses per cubic a.u.), a = 5, n = 3, and K = 50. 
For these values, the total mass of the cloud in terms of solar mass Ms, is M = 0.0584 cos (n/2 - 8max)Ms' and r3p1 reaches a maximum at r = 5.83 a.u."

"The center of mass is occupied by a star with a mass of one unit (one solar mass). All particles in the cloud are moving on elliptical orbits, with the center of mass at one focus. The density of dust (p1) within the cloud depends on a function of the form p1 = A exp (-arl/n). The overall density of gas and dust (p2) within the cloud equals Kpl, where r is distance from the center of mass (in astronomical units, a.u.) and A. a. n. and K (the vas/dust ratio) are constants."

"There is a spherically symmetrical cloud of dust and gas with a constant ratio of gas to dust, the density decreasing with distance from the center."

"Certain parameters must be specified to obtain quantitative re-sults: the density distribution within the cloud; the ratio of gas to dust; a definition of critical mass, or the planetary mass above which a planet can begin to accumulate gas in addition to dust; and the orbital eccentricity of particles within the cloud. Also, a few rules for the coalescence and growth of planets must be established. When these parameters and rules have been set forth in a suitable manner, planetary systems very much like the solar system can be created. Multiple-star systems can be created by changing a single parameter, the density level within the cloud."

"Running ACRETE with the parameters a = 4.4, a = 0.22, and A = 4.2 ! x 10-4 leads to a pathological multiple star system. Clearly, this same result will occur if A is increased to 0.0015 Mo/AU31 in which case all of the parameters would be identical to those used by Dole except for f31 which is 0.22 instead of 0.33. The companion star, then, forms near the edge of the nebula; Table 1 indicates that it is the more gradual decrease in the former case that is causing the difficulty. "

"The asteroid belt formed from the primordial solar nebula as a group of planetesimals.[8] Planetesimals are the smaller precursors of the protoplanets. Between Mars and Jupiter, however, gravitational perturbations from Jupiter imbued the protoplanets with too much orbital energy for them to accrete into a planet.[8][9] Collisions became too violent, and instead of fusing together, the planetesimals and most of the protoplanets shattered."

"In an anonymous footnote to his 1766 translation of Charles Bonnet's Contemplation de la Nature, the astronomer Johann Daniel Titius of Wittenberg noted an apparent pattern in the layout of the planets, now known as the Titius-Bode Law. If one began a numerical sequence at 0, then included 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, etc., doubling each time, and added four to each number and divided by 10, this produced a remarkably close approximation to the radii of the orbits of the known planets as measured in astronomic units."

Habitable moons:
Based on tidal heating models, scientists have defined zones in satellite systems similarly to those of planetary systems. One such zone is the circumplanetary habitable zone (or "habitable edge"). According to this theory, moons closer to their planet than the habitable edge cannot support liquid water at their surface. When effects of eclipses as well as constraints from a satellite's orbital stability are included into this concept, one finds that — depending on a moon's orbital eccentricity — there is a minimum mass of roughly 0.2 solar masses for stars to host habitable moons within the stellar HZ.[48]
The magnetic environment of exomoons, which is critically triggered by the intrinsic magnetic field of the host planet, has been identified as another effect on exomoon habitability.[49] Most notably, it was found that moons at distances between about 5 and 20 planetary radii from a giant planet can be habitable from an illumination and tidal heating point of view, but still the planetary magnetosphere would critically influence their habitability.

https://arxiv.org/pdf/1209.0050.pdf
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1309.0811.pdf
